The goal of my project was to determine positivity of clusters in collected data. Let me ellaborate the phrase: 'positivity of clusters'. Each cluster has several members. I collect a sample of tweets for each member. Now, in a cluster, there can be negative tweets and positive tweets. But, does a few negative tweets influence the rest of the members of the cluster to post negative tweets? The project findings would answer this question. First, i cluster data and find communities. Later, for each cluster, i classifiy each tweet by each user to reach an answer to the question.

In collection stage, since 'election' is a buzz word in recent days, I pulled tweets containing the word 'election'. From each tweet, i extracted the user screen names. If a user has posted at least 50,000 tweets, i categorize that user as a high-frequency tweeter. I get a small sample of these "high-frequency tweeters". Now, for each high-frequency tweeter, i retrieve, 10 followers and 10 friends. I maintain the friend and follower information for each high-frequency tweeter in a dictionary. Several dictionaries are maintained to map high-frequency tweeters to relevant content.Now, for each friend and follower, including the high-frequency tweeter, i retrieve a sample of tweets. 

In clustering stage, i create a graph with all users present. Users can be high-frequency tweeters and their friends & followers. I apply the girvan-newman algorithm to discover communitites in the graph. I observe that several high-frequency tweeters have common followers. It resulted in fewer communities than assumed. I maintain a dictionary mapping each community to all members of that community.

In classification stage, first i form a dictionary mapping each user to their tweets. I classify based on sentiment of the tweet: positive or negative sentiment. In my training data, i have about 13,000 tweets for positive tweets and about 13,000 tweets for negative tweets. I train my classifier with this data. I predict sentiment of all tweets first. Later, i drill-down and predict sentiment for each tweet by each user. I encountered a situation where some user didn't have tweets, so i put more checks in my code. I computed the positive score and negative score for each cluster. A high positive difference indicated low influence of negative tweets on the overall positivity of the community.

Through this project, i was able to glue together, the different stages involved in social network analysis. I encountered API rate limits and entire twitter user objects. I understood that location is not always disclosed. The high positive scores for the communities discovered, helped to answer the question, that i began with in this project. The question was: "Does a few negative tweets influence the rest of the members of the cluster to post negative tweets?"
